[00:00:00] Hey, if it's your first time here, my name is Sadia. I'm a registered dietitian and nutritionist. Welcome to Pick Up Limes. So you want to eat healthier, but you seriously don't have the time. You're already trying to make time for friends and family, work or school, maybe picking up a hobby or even trying to be more active.

I get it, it can be really overwhelming. So it's probably just easier to grab a doner or pizza from around the corner or maybe just go out for dinner. Am I right? But how expensive is that getting? And how many times do you find yourself thinking, man, I really should be making more of my own food. Well, don't worry.

I've got your back. In this video, you're going to join me as I meal prep for the week. Everything that you see me do here takes under an hour, and it's gonna significantly cut down the time I'm gonna be spending in the kitchen throughout the week. Plus, it's way healthier than anything I possibly could have bought at the store, and it's gonna save me money.

Cha ching! So let's get started. Onions. How much do you hate cutting them? [00:01:00] Seriously, I feel like no heartbreak could make you cry as much as onions do. So, here are my tips. I batch, peel, and quarter the onions, and instead of chopping them myself, I put them in a food processor and pulse them until they're coarsely chopped.

Then, using just a little bit of oil in a nonstick pan, I cook them on high heat until they soften. When they start to stick to the bottom, instead of adding more oil, I just add about a quarter cup or 75 milliliters of water and then stir. This brings up the browning, which helps to caramelize the onions even better and it prevents them from burning.

Plus, it's way healthier than just using more oil. Then I repeat this as needed until all the onions are caramelized, which takes about 10 minutes. Then I put it in a glass container, I let it cool, and then put it in the fridge. Use it in pasta sauces, casseroles, stir fries, or soups, you name it. It just saves time on peeling, chopping, and cooking when all you really want is a quick meal.

And you only cry just the one time instead of every single night. Garlic. Let's be [00:02:00] honest, sometimes you really want to use more, but you just really don't want your fingers to smell garlicky all evening, so you either skimp out or you use garlic powder. Am I right? If so, here are my tips. Advanced cut and peel the garlic.

This can seem time consuming, but it's super mindless. So you can do it while you're talking on the phone with somebody, or just give it to your kids or partner to do while they watch TV. Personally, I just love spacing out while doing it. It's like meditating for those five minutes. Once it's peeled, put it in an airtight container and put it in the fridge.

Now you have garlic ready to go, chop, mince, or crush in any dish however you like it. The fingers stay fresh and the meal is flavorful. Win win if you ask me. Grains and legumes. We all know we should be having more whole grains and less of the processed stuff, like white bread or white pasta or white rice even.

But it's just so quick when we want a fast meal. And we also know that we should be having less meat, but if you don't have any meat replacements on hand or canned beans, Forget about making it from scratch. So, if you find that you're in these [00:03:00] situations, here are my tips. The obvious solution is to batch cook grains and beans and lentils in advance.

Here's another tip. Always soak your grains and lentils beforehand, even if it's just for a couple hours, but preferably up to eight hours or overnight. I always meal prep on Sundays, so I've gotten in the habit of soaking them Saturday night. In the description box below, I'll link to an article that I've written that explains the many, many benefits of soaking beforehand.

One of which is that it quickens the cooking time. It's also helpful if you can rinse the beans or lentils at some point while it's soaking in order to wash away those compounds that can make us gassy. And by the way, if you've got less time, lentils cook way faster than beans, and quinoa way faster than brown rice.

Hummus. This is like a miracle food. I seriously have this almost every day. Whether it's with veggies as some kind of snack, or for lunch in a sandwich or a wrap, or I usually serve it as a condiment with dinner. It's really high in protein and in fiber. Yeah, you get it. It's just damn good. So here are my [00:04:00] tips.

Using either canned beans or the chickpeas you just cooked, make a bash to store in the fridge. It's healthier than the store bought kind and way cheaper too. I'll link a recipe in the description box below. Veggies. You're more likely to eat it if it's readily on hand. Use anything you like here. Carrots, bell peppers, broccoli.

You know what to do. It's just about doing it. Frozen bananas. They're so versatile and filling and make your food naturally sweet. I use it in smoothies, of course, but I also put some frozen bananas into my oatmeal while it's cooking. It disintegrates and makes the oatmeal really creamy and naturally sweet.

Or you can just blend up the frozen bananas on its own and enjoy it as a soft serve ice cream for dessert. Now, here are my tips. Peel super ripe bananas. I like to quarter them so that I know that every four pieces is equal to one banana. Then I arrange it on a single layer and put it in the freezer.

Although I didn't do it here, putting a parchment paper on top of the plate also helps when you're trying to remove it later so it doesn't stick. Once it's frozen, then I transfer it to a bag or a container, and in [00:05:00] this way they don't stick together and it's easy to just grab and use whenever I need it.

Feel free to also batch freeze any other fruit of your choosing. Granola. Now a breakfast parfait is also a quick and insanely delicious way to start any morning. Or you could enjoy it as a snack. How you can prep this in advance is by making your own granola. I've already made a previous video where I show you how to make your own homemade granola and parfait, so I'm gonna link those videos for you right here.

And that is pretty much it. I'm gonna let you go early so that you can get started on your meal prep like a boss. But before you do that, give me a little thumb if you found this video helpful, subscribe so you don't miss out on any future videos, and let me know in the comment section below if you've got any tips or tricks of your own.

All right, thanks for stopping by and I will see you in the next video.

